---
layout: default
title: Creating my first ever website
---
<h1 class="header-name">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<h4 class="header-name">Written by Chanse Campbell on {{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}</h4>

So we're over half way through September and the time has finally come.... I've started working on creating my first ever website. To be quite honest, I never really saw myself creating anything that would ever be seen publicly, given that I only truly started taking my course with Treehouse some 7 weeks ago. The opportunity came about partly as a family favour and party due to the fact that I've just reached the end of CSS foundations and layout techniques on Treehouse and surprisingly felt ready to tackle something outside of my fairly tragic Codepen experiments.

As I said in my previous post, Codepen is definitely a fantastic tool to play around with alongside tackling Treehouse videos when learning HTML and CSS, partly because you can quickly construct things you've just learned whilst seeing it come to life before your eyes right there in the browser. I have to say however that towards the end of my basic CSS learning I was getting slightly impatient with the whole process and felt very eager to actually tackle something real. Luckily for me, both my parents are self-employed and my mums ebay-based shop she runs along with her partner has recently begun to take off rapidly. So in an attempt to save both of them a few quid paying a web designer, I jumped in to the rescue (partly because my ego couldn't bare to let anyone make one after I've done all this work!).

I'm not going to pretend that this was what I envisioned my first project to be, after all I'm essentially designing and constructing an ecommerce site that sells hand-made dolls and toys, but never-the-less I can't deny that I've grossly underestimated how incredibly helpful this entire process would be. Currently I'm around halfway into the process, having already spent many hours trying to get the general layout down in a mobile design that fluidly changes over to both a tablet and desktop resolution. There have definitely been a few frustrating moment where I've questioned by ability to do it but through recapping on both my CSS notes and Treehouse videos I've managed to overcome nearly every issue and even had a few EUREKA! moments which have been fantastic.

The websites a simple HTML and CSS design that I'm going to attach to an ecommerce hosting website with a built in shopping cart (I'm still not entirely sure how I'm going to merge my design with these in-built features though) and I'm definitely currently thinking that if I can get the basic site up within the next few days then I can go back over it once I've progressed on to learn Javascript in the next month or so. I'll update some of my posts within the next few days with basic screen shots of my first design and final product which will definitely be interesting to reflect back upon in the future!