---
layout: default
title: Learning basic HTML and CSS with Treehouse
---
<h1 class="header-name">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<h4 class="header-name">Written by Chanse Campbell on {{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}</h4>

OK, so with my plane touching down in Manchester Airport some 47 hours previous and fresh from my end of exam trip to Thailand, I finally sit down ready to get on to Treehouse still dazed with jet lag and armed with a cup of tea. After initially completing the 'How to Make a Website' section of the Web Design track as a small taster back in early June, I felt confidently ready to tackle some more HTML and CSS learning. I have to say however that straight off the bat I was mildly disappointed by the underwhelming pace in which the HTML and CSS foundations modules moved at in comparison with what I'd covered previously. By no means do I mistake myself as anything but a coding newbie but I couldn't help shake the feeling of boredom when having to learning basic steps such as how to link a page yet again. Attempting to put my cynical thoughts aside and focus on the positives that this reinforcement of knowledge may have upon my temperamental memory, I soldiered on with the Web Design track.

While learning HTML basics with Nick Petit, I quickly found myself falling back into a comfortable rhythm as my memory was quickly refreshed from the first module taken one month previous. As a teacher, Petit seems to be a great choice. Not only is he slow and patient with his speech but he seems to omit a passion and interest in the material he's teaching, despite the fact that it must be extremely simplistic to him personally. Having quickly touched all the bases within HTML it was time to move over to the CSS Foundations module and with it came a new teacher.

Admittedly I was slightly unsure for around the first 30 seconds or so with front end designer Guil Hernandez, but these doubts were quickly extinguished when I realised that Hernandez possessed that similiar patient and pleasant teaching quality that I had grown used to in previous lessons. I'm currently around a quarter of a way into CSS Foundations and amidst the lessons on CSS selectors I'm beginning to realise the magnitude of the task before me in learning to be fluent within a coding language. I think within my mind I mistakenly misjudged HTML and CSS as beginners languages that would be quick and easy to learn. Although I don't doubt that with enough dedication I have the capacity to learn to write fluently, the amount of values, attributes and terms I'm currently being presented with feel slightly intimidating to say the least.

I'm trying to counter these worries by creating a small CSS cheat sheet, something I may also duplicate in time for HTML. The current plan is to complete the entire Web Design course within the next month and then put all my newly acquired knowledge to practice by completing a prototype webpage for a project I hope to work on in the future. But I'm getting a little ahead of myself, for now it's time to get back to some CSS learning :)