---
layout: default
title: Coding Bootcamps &amp; Javascript Beginnings
---
<h1 class="header-name">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<h3 class="header-name">Written by Chanse Campbell on {{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}</h3>

So the last time I did a post was over a month ago and that was mainly due to the fact that I've been working like a mad man with two different jobs. I've basically been trying to save as much money as I can from September through until now and I don't see myself easing up anytime soon. The main reason for that is that I recently finally got around to applying for a coding bootcamp in London after months and months of careful consideration. After a week or two of the application process with General Assembly LDN I'm finally confirmed for the March 2015 cohort and things are getting pretty exciting! If your reading this back for the first time you would be excused for feeling slightly confused that my posts have gone from "Learning to build a basic website" to coding bootcamps but it's actually something I've been researching since the end of August.

General Assembly, for anyone who doesn't already know, is an institution with campuses worldwide that runs immersive courses and classes for people interested in learning web skills such as programming and web design. I did some initial research into establishments based in London after reading about the effectiveness of these intense courses that people attend in the US and narrowed down my interest to both General Assembly and Makers Academy based in East London near 'Silicon Roundabout' as it's sometimes known. What really drew me to GA in the end though was a combination of it's friendly staff, it's collaborative attitude across multiple classes it runs and the fact that in completing a course from them in particular I would essentially be part of a worldwide programming alumni community which can't be anything but a great thing.

I basically finally decided to try my luck for a place in late October and had to reuse lots of my prior Treehouse learnings as I again built a basic HTML &amp; CSS website design as part of the process. I have to say I really love that I come alive under a little bit of pressure to try and push myself to design something. Although thanks to a hectic life I'm still at a stage where I refer to my notes and online materials most steps of the way, I think that it's probably a healthy and natural thing to refer to previous materials as a way of keeping the knowledge fresh in my mind. On the back of that I've just begun my JavaScript learnings at Treehouse too and I have to say I'm LOVING IT. I may be speaking a little bit too soon (again) but I'm currently really enjoying learning the basics more than potentially anything I've done before this point. Right now I admittedly can't do much but I'm hoping that a few weeks down the line in December I'll actually be able to finally merge my JavaScript with my existing HTML and CSS knowledge.

Like I said, I'm currently down for the March 2015 intake where I'll be focusing on Ruby and many other languages so right now the plan is to get myself up to scratch with front-end before starting General Assembly's pre-work process and finally getting face-to-face with Ruby. There's some exciting times ahead and I can't wait to see what 2015 has in store for my blossoming coding journey :)