---
layout: default
title: Discovering what I like about coding
---

<h1 class="header-name">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<h4 class="header-name">Written by Chanse Campbell on {{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}</h4>

<p>Over the past 9 weeks I've been working as one of the <strong>Teaching Assistants</strong> at <strong>General Assembly</strong> for WDI21. Off the back of being a student here at GA, I was both anxious and excited to be continuing my journey with a company that I was already familiar with and as expected I've definitely learned a hell of a lot in the process and it's been extremely rewarding to be a part of a the experience for a new group of coders that are just a few months behind me.</p>

<p>One of the most interesting aspects of being on the course again has been diving back into the content whilst being required to also now provide a support role to the new students. I previously found during my time on the course that one of the biggest challenges with a bootcamp like this is simply the sheer <strong>speed</strong> in which the course material moves on a daily and weekly basis.</p>

<p>On my first week back on the course as a TA it was admittedly a little tricky to remember the basics as I hadn't really had time to sit down and think about pure JavaScript or CSS since the <strong>whirlwind</strong> that was WDI19. Suddenly I was thrown back into this environment where we had pure event handlers, JS loops and a severe lack of CSS framework grid structures to be able to rely on. I was being reminded that learning to code is actually quite hard. <em>Weird</em>.</p>

<p>Thankfully it didn't take long to adapt and as the course has gone on that's what I've had to do on a daily and weekly basis - just like old times. Only <strong>this time</strong> I've been slightly amazed at the rate that some of the stuff has come <strong>flooding</strong> back to me after only a couple of minutes <em>(or maybe sometimes hours on the odd occasion)</em> of looking at syntax that I've not seen in what seems like an eternity in <strong>GA years</strong>. It's finally allowed me to realise that I've come a long way over the past five months and that old Malcolm Gladwell may well be onto something with his whole <strong>10,000 hours</strong> theory.</p>

<p>I've learned to be more patient with others and try to adapt to their ways of solving the same problem from a different angle. I've also learned that I have an <strong>unexplainable</strong> love for writing JavaScript due to a second bout of writing in Ruby that culminated in mild JavaScript seperation anxiety (it's a real thing guys, I swear). With three weeks left to go on the course as a Teaching Assistant and a new job starting shortly after as a <strong>Front End Web Developer</strong> I'm looking forward to being able to finally blog about plain old nitty gritty code and some of the new things I'll be working with, but I have to admit that I'll severely miss the classroom environment and the great community that GA seems to foster. If <strong>10,000 hours</strong> is the ultimate milestone then I've still got a long bloody way to go, so here's hoping that the next 90% of the way is just as <strong>enjoyable</strong> as my first 10% has been so far.</p>