---
layout: default
title: Reflecting on 2016 - The year that I learned to code
---

<h1 class="header-name">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<h4 class="header-name">Written by Chanse Campbell on {{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}</h4>

<p>Almost exactly a year ago from now I made the big decision to quit my comfortable job and pursue a career as Developer, despite having limited experience within the field. After confirming my enrollment at General Assembly I marked the occasion with a post entitled <strong>2016 - The year of big change</strong>. Looking back at it now a year later, as cringe worthy as it is to read these old messages, I can't help but reflect upon the difference that a year actually does make.</p>

<p>A year on from the start of an impending career change and I've completed the three month course, worked as a Teaching Assistant on the following three month course and worked in my first full-time Junior Dev role within the industry for nearly four months now. As someone who has openly admitted to never really knowing how to 'be good' at anything in particular, I was more than a little skeptical at just how good of a Developer I could possibly become in such a short amount of time.</p>

<!--<p>Looking back at everything that's unfolded over the past year now, it's not that I'm now a master coder 12 months on from quitting my job. The differences seem to lie in the little things that actually have a big impact on my working day. For example, gone are the days where I have to worry about the data types I'm working with. It's now fairly simple to look at a problem, dissect it and identify the datatypes and methods I'm going to need. Do I need an array or object? No problem. Which methods shall I use? Let me just look up the syntax. It's almost now like I've seen the answer book, taken the test dozens of times and so the solution is now not hard to find. Sometimes I even manage to remember it myself without any help.</p>-->

<p>The first few months of coding whilst on the course were definitely a very exciting time, but I'd be lying if I didn't admit that it wasn't also sometimes a little overwhelming too. As I moved into the industry I wondered whether or not I was experiencing these feelings because I was trying something new, but it soon became apparent that a normal working day could be just as equally turbulent as well. That's just life as a Developer apparently, or atleast a Junior Dev anyway.</p>

<p>A couple of months ago in October, a month into starting my first proper Dev job at Oddschecker, I wrote the draft for a Medium article titled '<strong>How to Succeed at The Art of Not Knowing Anything'</strong> which basically documented my first month of feeling lost within my Junior Dev role. Long story short, I had learned to code in a sort of educational bubble at General Assembly and then proceeded to cement the same stuff again as a Teaching Assistant. After six months of writing code a certain way without any prior bad habits, I found it difficult to work with new frameworks, syntaxes and tools for the first time as a proper working profressional. I was experiencing a fear of venturing out of my comfort zone as I might be 'found out', and a deep desire to stick to what I knew.</p>

<p>Despite all of this however, by the time I actually got around to publishing the article a couple of weeks later, I was already feeling much more comfortable working with React, TypeScript, Webpack, Hapi and a couple of other things that I'd never seen before. Ironically, my article already felt outdated within a couple of working weeks on the job. And I actually think that this is pretty reflective of this industry in general, with today's negatives becoming tomorrow's positives in some crazy circle of life. So looking back, yes it's been a rollercoaster but I've probably never seen a year before in which I've experienced this much personal and professional growth (and I've spent 4 years and a considerable amount of money at Uni so that's saying something).</p>

<p>I'm going to be moving the site across to a newly built React blog in a couple of weeks, and as one of my new years resolutions I'm planning to create a <strong>10 weeks of JavaScript</strong> games course with step-by-steps for beginners to practice using canvas for the first time. My reasoning behind this is that I believe that making games has been one of the most effective (and enjoyable ways) that I've found of learning a new language, so if you've ever wanted to learn to code too or know somebody who'd like to then this might be the perfect opportunity to do just that. I'm already excited to see what I'll be able to reflect upon by the end of 2017. Happy new year!