---
layout: default
title: Reflecting on 2016 - The year that I learned to code
---

<h1 class="header-name">{{ page.title }}</h1>
<h4 class="header-name">Written by Chanse Campbell on {{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}</h4>

<p>Almost exactly a year ago I made a big decision and quit my comfortable job to pursue a career as Developer, despite having limited experience within the field. After confirming my enrollment at General Assembly I marked the occasion with a post entitled <strong>2016 - The year of big change</strong>. Looking back at it now a year later, as cringe worthy as it is to read these old messages, I can't help but reflect upon the difference that a year actually does make.</p>

<p>Now a year on, I've completed the three month course, worked as a Teaching Assistant on the following three month course, worked for four months within the industry in my first full-time Junior Dev role and logged around 2000 hours of code. It's a hell of a lot to pack into one year, and as someone who has openly admitted to never really knowing how to 'be good' at anything in particular, I was more than a little skeptical at just how much progress I could possibly make in such a short amount of time.</p>

<p>The first few months of coding whilst on the course were definitely a very exciting time, with the new tools we learned on a daily basis giving us an instant empowering feeling. However I'd be lying if I didn't admit that it wasn't also sometimes a little overwhelming too, with working days often running from 9am-9pm. It's not that I hadn't even worked that hard before because I have, but I soon discovered that learning to code for 12 hours a day introduced a new type of mental exhaustion. Apparently a brain could run out of RAM and mine was.</p>

<p>After six months, I moved into the industry in my first role at Oddschecker almost immediately after leaving General Assembly, with little more than a weekend between companies. At this point I had a mass mix of emotions, with an eagerness to finally 'begin' and an equal amount of dread that I wouldn't be able to keep up to the standards of my co-workers.</p>

<p>Around a month into the job, I began to  write the draft for a Medium article titled '<strong>How to Succeed at The Art of Not Knowing Anything'</strong> which basically documented my first month of mixed emotions. Long story short, I felt as though I had learned to code in a sort of educational bubble at General Assembly and then proceeded to cement the same stuff again as a Teaching Assistant. This was brilliant as I definitely retained the new information, but after six months of writing code a certain way without any prior bad habits, I had a sort of fear of venturing off the beaten path. I'd learned to write JavaScript to the ES5 standard and now ES6 was being used in my new company. I'd learned to build apps in Angular 1 and now Angular 2 was out (and we actually mainly used React instead). Git? We used Mercurial. Grunt? We used Gulp. The list went on, and for someone who only learned to code 3-6 months ago it can be a little daunting at first.</p>

<p>Despite all of this however, by the time I actually got around to publishing the article a couple of weeks later I was already feeling much more comfortable working with the new stack and tools required. Ironically my article already felt outdated within a couple of working weeks on the job, with my worries now feeling just as equally irrelevant too. Infact, now four months into the role I'm about to build myself a blog entirely in React and using tools that I'd never even used on the course. The power of hindsight makes me wonder what all of the fuss was even about.</p>

<p>So looking back on the year, it's definitely been a rollercoaster but I've probably never seen a year before in which I've experienced this much personal and professional growth (and I've spent 4 years and a considerable amount of money at Uni so that's saying something). If your considering learning to code as your new years resolution then I would say that it's obviously very achievable and thousands like me are clearly doing it every year, but try not to expect too much of yourself too soon - it will come subtly and when it does there's no better feeling.</p>

<p>One of my own new years resolutions is to create a series of Javascript tutorials in a <strong>10 weeks of JavaScript</strong> beginners series in which I want to help people to build JavaScript games using canvas that will simply run in the browser. My reasoning behind this is that I believe that making games has been one of the most effective (and enjoyable ways) that I've found to learn JavaScript. So if you're thinking of following through on that new years resolution or know somebody else who is then follow me on twitter or check back soon for news on the upcoming series. I'm already excited to see what I'll be able to reflect upon by the end of 2017. Happy new year!